In this lesson, we will add statistics for the kills and deaths of the character. For this we need
2 additional changes, one of them will be responsible for the number of kills KillsNum.
And the other for the number of deaths DeathNum. We create them in the character's PlayerState class.
In the public category, add methods for working with these variables. The first method will be called AddKill.
In this function, the KillsNum variable will be incremented by one. Add a similar AddDeath method.
In this function, we will increase the number of deaths.
And also add getter functions for each variable.
Let's create a special function LogInfo, which will output all the variables of this class to the console.
We create the body of the function. Let's create a logging category.
The macro can be copied from anywhere. Let's call the category LogSTUPlayerState.
And we will print all the values ​​of the variables.
Calculate the kill statistics we will be in game mode. Let's create a function for this, which we will call Killed.
She will have two controllers: one is the killer's controller, and the other is the victim's controller.
Therefore, we call the first parameter KillerController.
And the second is VictimController.
And we also create an additional function that will print information on all PlayerStates, let's call it LogPlayerInfo.
Let's start with the Killed function. We create the body of the function at the very bottom of the .cpp file.
All the information needs to be written to the PlayerState and so let's get them first.
The first PlayerState is killers. We can get PlayerState using the ternary operator:
if the controller is not equal to a null pointer, we cast the PlayerState to our type.
If the controller is a null pointer, then we also write nullptr in PlayerState.
Similarly, we get VictimPlayerState.
We replace KillerController with Victim.
Further, if the PlayerState of the killer is not zero,
then we call its AddKIll function, which we have just created.
We also check the victim's PlayerState.
If it is not 0, then we call the AddDeath function.
Let's also create the LogPlayerInfo function. In this function, we need to go through all the PlayerStates.
To do this, we can copy the cycle from CreateTeamsInfo.
We insert it into the LogPlayerInfo function.
First, we will also check that the world pointer is not 0.
The loop is almost ready, it remains to call the logging function that we created a few minutes ago.
So, I made a mistake, called LigInfo. Let's rename to LogInfo. Also replace in PlayerState.
We will print all the information when the game is over.
Therefore, under the GameOver log we add a call to this function. And the last moment, we need to call
the Killed function in the health component when the character dies.
In the header file, let's add a helper function, which we'll also call Killed.
It will have one parameter - the killer controller. We create the body of this function.
We will need to access the game mode, so let's start by including the game mode header file.
And we will call this function in the OnTakeAnyDamage function, before calling the Broadcast delegate OnDeath.
We transfer this function to InstigatedBy.
That is, the controller of the character that called the OnTakeAnyDamage function.
Go to the Killed function, create a local variable GameMode.
The GameMode pointer is in the UWorld object, we get it using the GetWorld function
and call the GetAuthGameMode function. This function returns a pointer to GameMode.
We need to cast to our class.
If the pointer is null, then exit the function.
Next, we need to get our own controller. Let's use the GetOwner function,
which will return a pointer to our character. Let's Cast to APawn, this will be enough for us.
We create a helper variable that we will call VictimController.
If the pointer to player is not 0, then we assign the controller of our player to this variable, and if 0, then nullptr.
And at the very end, we call the Killed function, pass the killer controller parameter and the victim's controller
into it .
All is ready. You can check. Compile.
In the game mode blueprint, set the number of players to 4, and the number of seconds in a round to 6. Open log. We start the game.
We look in the log and we do not agree on the number of deaths and the number of murders. Let's see what the problem is.
The problem is as follows: when we were developing the rifle, we passed a controller
to the TakeDamage function , which the GetPlayerController function returns.
We didn’t know about the AI ​​controller at that time, and in general we didn’t use the killer's controller.
In the case of the NPC, it turns out that the GetController template function returns us nullptr.
Because the NPC has a different type of controller.
In the case of projectile, everything works correctly for us, because we pass a pointer
to the base AController class to the ApplyRadialDamage function. Let's copy this function and add it to RifleWeapon.
Let's pass a pointer to the base class of the controller into the TakeDamage function.
We also declare the function in the header file.
In general, we can remove the GetPlayerController function from BaseWeapon.
We only call it in one place, where we can explicitly specify the PlayerController.
Let's copy the receipt of the PlayerController into the GetPlayerViewPoint function and change the
Player to STUCharacter. The function body can be deleted.
And also its declaration from the .h file.
We compile the project.
Let's check again.
We look in the log and now the number of murders and deaths are the same: both values ​​are 5.